DOTconfig.home.symlink/qmk/keychron_v4_max/README.md, before:

# Keychron V4 Max Custom QMK Keymap

This keymap replicates your Karabiner configuration and GK6X keyboard settings for the Keychron V4 Max.

## Features Implemented

### Dual-Function Keys (Tap vs Hold)
- **Caps Lock**: Tap for `Escape`, Hold for `Left Ctrl`
- **Enter**: Tap for `Enter`, Hold for `Right Ctrl`

### Physical Key Remaps
- **Escape key** (upper left): Now `Backtick/Tilde` [`~]
- **Left Ctrl** (lower left): Hold to temporarily activate VIM layer

### Layer Switching
**From Base Layer:**
- **Hold Left Ctrl**: Temporarily activate VIM layer (release to return)
- **Ctrl + Q/W**: Switch to Base layer permanently
- **Ctrl + E**: Switch to VIM layer permanently
- **Ctrl + R**: Switch to Numpad layer permanently
- **Visual indicator**: Q/W/E/R glow RED when Ctrl is pressed

**From VIM/Numpad Layers:**
- **Q or W**: Return to Base layer (no Ctrl needed)
- **E**: Go to VIM layer (no Ctrl needed)
- **R**: Go to Numpad layer (no Ctrl needed)

### Right Side Arrow Keys
To the right of spacebar: `Left Arrow`, `Down Arrow`, `Right Arrow`, `Right Ctrl`

### RGB Control
- **Ctrl + \\**: Toggle base layer RGB on/off

### VIM Layer (Layer 2)
Activated by holding Left Ctrl (lower left key):

**Navigation:**
- `H` → Left Arrow
- `J` → Down Arrow
- `K` → Up Arrow
- `L` → Right Arrow
- `M` → Home
- `,` → End
- `U` → Page Up
- `I` → Page Down

**Editing:**
- `Backspace` → Forward Delete

**Volume:**
- `8` → Mute
- `9` → Volume Down
- `0` → Volume Up

**Layer Switching:**
- **Q or W** → Base layer (direct)
- **E** → Stay in VIM
- **R** → Numpad layer (direct)
- `S` → Numpad layer (legacy)
- `D` → Base layer (legacy)
- `Shift` → Still works as Shift

**Disabled Keys:**
Letters A, B, C, F, G, N, O, P, T, V, X, Y, Z and numbers 1-7 are disabled in this layer.

### Numpad Layer (Layer 3)
Activated by pressing `R` (or `S`) in VIM layer, or `Ctrl+R` from Base:

**Numbers (regular digits, not numpad):**
```
Top Row: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0
Letters: U I O  →  7 8 9
         J K L  →  4 5 6
       M , . N  →  1 2 3 0
```

**Special Characters:**
```
;  →  , (comma)
/  →  . (period)
\  →  / (division)
```

**Mathematical Operators (natural Shift positions):**
- `!` (Shift+1) → ! (factorial)
- Shift+5 → % (modulo)
- Shift+6 → ^ (power)
- Shift+8 → * (multiply)
- `-` → - (minus)
- `=` → = (equals)
- Shift+= → + (plus)
- Shift+, → < (less than)
- Shift+. → > (greater than)

**Layer Switching:**
- **Q or W** → Base layer (direct)
- **E** → VIM layer (direct)
- **R** → Stay in Numpad
- `S` → VIM layer (legacy)
- `D` → Base layer (legacy)

### RGB Lighting
- **Base Layer**: White (toggle on/off with Ctrl+\\)
- **VIM Layer**: Per-key colors (H/J/K/L purple, S/D dark blue, etc.)
- **Numpad Layer**: Per-key colors (numbers purple, 0 green, operators red)
- **Ctrl Indicator**: Q/W/E/R glow RED when Ctrl is pressed

---

## Installation Instructions

### 1. Install QMK Prerequisites

#### macOS (via Homebrew):
```bash
brew install qmk/qmk/qmk
```

Or install the full toolchain:
```bash
brew install qmk/qmk/qmk
brew install --cask qmk-toolbox
```

### 2. Set Up QMK

```bash
# Clone QMK firmware
qmk setup

# This will clone the QMK repo to ~/qmk_firmware by default
```

### 3. Copy Your Keymap

```bash
# Create directory for your custom keymap
mkdir -p ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/keychron/v4_max/ansi/keymaps/custom

# Copy your keymap files
cp ~/.config/qmk/keychron_v4_max/* ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/keychron/v4_max/ansi/keymaps/custom/
```

**Note:** The exact path may vary. Check your QMK firmware directory structure:
```bash
ls ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/keychron/
```

If `v4_max` doesn't exist, you may need to:
- Update QMK: `qmk setup -H ~/qmk_firmware`
- Or use VIA firmware (see Alternative Method below)

### 4. Compile the Firmware

```bash
cd ~/qmk_firmware

# Compile the firmware
qmk compile -kb keychron/v4_max/ansi -km custom
```

This will create a `.bin` file in the root of the QMK directory.

### 5. Flash the Keyboard

#### Using QMK Toolbox (Recommended):
1. Download and open [QMK Toolbox](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_toolbox/releases)
2. Open the compiled `.bin` file
3. Put your keyboard in bootloader mode:
   - Unplug the keyboard
   - Hold `Esc` key
   - Plug in the keyboard while holding `Esc`
   - Release `Esc`
4. Click "Flash" in QMK Toolbox

#### Using Command Line:
```bash
# Put keyboard in bootloader mode, then:
qmk flash -kb keychron/v4_max/ansi -km custom
```

---

## Alternative Method: Using VIA

If QMK compilation is too complex, the Keychron V4 Max supports VIA:

1. Download [VIA](https://www.caniusevia.com/)
2. Enable VIA mode on your keyboard (check Keychron documentation)
3. Use VIA's GUI to remap keys

**Limitations with VIA:**
- Harder to implement the "disabled keys" feature
- Less control over lighting
- May not support all advanced features (like Right Ctrl + / = Up)

---

## Testing Your Keymap

After flashing:

1. Test dual-function keys:
   - Tap Caps Lock → Should produce `Esc`
   - Hold Caps Lock, press another key → Should act as `Ctrl`
   - Same for Enter key

2. Test VIM layer:
   - Hold Left Ctrl (lower left)
   - Press H/J/K/L → Should move cursor like arrows
   - Press 8/9/0 → Should control volume

3. Test arrow keys:
   - Keys right of spacebar should be arrows
   - Right Ctrl + `/` → Should produce Up arrow

4. Test layer switching:
   - Hold Left Ctrl, press S → Should enter numpad mode (lighting turns green)
   - Press D → Should return to base layer

---

## Customization

### Adjust Tapping Speed
Edit `config.h`:
```c
#define TAPPING_TERM 200  // Change to 150-300ms based on preference
```

### Change RGB Colors
Edit `keymap.c`, in the `layer_state_set_user` function:
```c
case _VIM:
    rgb_matrix_sethsv_noeeprom(HSV_BLUE);  // Change HSV_BLUE to HSV_RED, HSV_GREEN, etc.
```

### Add More Keys to VIM Layer
Edit the `[_VIM]` layer in `keymap.c` and replace `KC_NO` with desired keycodes.

---

## Troubleshooting

### Keyboard not recognized in bootloader mode
- Try different USB cable
- Try different USB port
- Check Keychron docs for specific bootloader instructions

### Compilation errors
- Update QMK: `qmk setup -H ~/qmk_firmware`
- Check keyboard path: May be `keychron/v4/ansi` instead of `keychron/v4_max/ansi`

### Keymap not working as expected
- Verify you flashed the correct firmware
- Check `LAYOUT_60_ansi` matches your keyboard (may need `LAYOUT_60_ansi_tsangan` or similar)
- Test in VIA mode first to ensure hardware works

### Right Ctrl + / not producing Up arrow
- The `process_record_user` function may need adjustment
- Try using a layer with LT() instead

---

## Reference

- [QMK Documentation](https://docs.qmk.fm/)
- [Keychron V4 Max Page](https://www.keychron.com/products/keychron-v4-max-qmk-via-wireless-custom-mechanical-keyboard)
- [QMK Keycodes](https://docs.qmk.fm/keycodes)
- [VIA Documentation](https://www.caniusevia.com/docs/specification)

---

## Files in This Directory

- `keymap.c` - Main keymap configuration
- `rules.mk` - Build rules and feature flags
- `config.h` - Timing and behavior configuration
- `README.md` - This file

Commit message:

Add Bluetooth pairing layer to QMK V4 Max keymap
- Add Layer 3 (BLUETOOTH) accessed via Right Ctrl + Grave/Escape key
- Enable Bluetooth device pairing via Fn1+Q/W/E (hold 4 sec)
- RGB indicators: Q, W, E, and Fn1 glow cyan in Bluetooth layer
- Update layer switching: Esc/Q/W/E/R glow red when Ctrl pressed
- Fix: Use KC_GRV handler (physical Escape key) instead of KC_ESC
- Fix: Only light Fn1 (Bluetooth key), not Fn3 (F-keys only)
- Disable RGBLIGHT_ENABLE and LTO_ENABLE for V4 Max compatibility
- Remove deprecated IGNORE_MOD_TAP_INTERRUPT from config
- Update all documentation (README, QUICK_REFERENCE, AGENT_INSTRUCTIONS)
- Compiled firmware: 63,406 bytes

DOTconfig.home.symlink/qmk/keychron_v4_max/README.md, after:

# Keychron V4 Max Custom QMK Keymap

This keymap replicates your Karabiner configuration and GK6X keyboard settings for the Keychron V4 Max.

## Features Implemented

### Dual-Function Keys (Tap vs Hold)
- **Caps Lock**: Tap for `Escape`, Hold for `Left Ctrl`
- **Enter**: Tap for `Enter`, Hold for `Right Ctrl`

### Physical Key Remaps
- **Escape key** (upper left): Now `Backtick/Tilde` [`~]
- **Left Ctrl** (lower left): Hold to temporarily activate VIM layer

### Layer Switching
**From Base Layer:**
- **Hold Left Ctrl**: Temporarily activate VIM layer (release to return)
- **Ctrl + `` ` ``** (physical Escape key): Switch to Bluetooth layer permanently
- **Ctrl + Q/W**: Switch to Base layer permanently
- **Ctrl + E**: Switch to VIM layer permanently
- **Ctrl + R**: Switch to Numpad layer permanently
- **Visual indicator**: `` ` ``, Q/W/E/R glow RED when Ctrl is pressed

**From VIM/Numpad Layers:**
- **Q or W**: Return to Base layer (no Ctrl needed)
- **E**: Go to VIM layer (no Ctrl needed)
- **R**: Go to Numpad layer (no Ctrl needed)

### Right Side Arrow Keys
To the right of spacebar: `Left Arrow`, `Down Arrow`, `Right Arrow`, `Right Ctrl`

### RGB Control
- **Ctrl + \\**: Toggle base layer RGB on/off

### VIM Layer (Layer 2)
Activated by holding Left Ctrl (lower left key):

**Navigation:**
- `H` → Left Arrow
- `J` → Down Arrow
- `K` → Up Arrow
- `L` → Right Arrow
- `M` → Home
- `,` → End
- `U` → Page Up
- `I` → Page Down

**Editing:**
- `Backspace` → Forward Delete

**Volume:**
- `8` → Mute
- `9` → Volume Down
- `0` → Volume Up

**Layer Switching:**
- **Q or W** → Base layer (direct)
- **E** → Stay in VIM
- **R** → Numpad layer (direct)
- `S` → Numpad layer (legacy)
- `D` → Base layer (legacy)
- `Shift` → Still works as Shift

**Disabled Keys:**
Letters A, B, C, F, G, N, O, P, T, V, X, Y, Z and numbers 1-7 are disabled in this layer.

### Numpad Layer (Layer 3)
Activated by pressing `R` (or `S`) in VIM layer, or `Ctrl+R` from Base:

**Numbers (regular digits, not numpad):**
```
Top Row: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0
Letters: U I O  →  7 8 9
         J K L  →  4 5 6
       M , . N  →  1 2 3 0
```

**Special Characters:**
```
;  →  , (comma)
/  →  . (period)
\  →  / (division)
```

**Mathematical Operators (natural Shift positions):**
- `!` (Shift+1) → ! (factorial)
- Shift+5 → % (modulo)
- Shift+6 → ^ (power)
- Shift+8 → * (multiply)
- `-` → - (minus)
- `=` → = (equals)
- Shift+= → + (plus)
- Shift+, → < (less than)
- Shift+. → > (greater than)

**Layer Switching:**
- **Q or W** → Base layer (direct)
- **E** → VIM layer (direct)
- **R** → Stay in Numpad
- `S` → VIM layer (legacy)
- `D` → Base layer (legacy)

### Bluetooth Layer (Layer 3)
Activated by pressing **Ctrl + `` ` ``** (physical Escape key):

**Purpose:** Access Bluetooth pairing functions while preserving stock key positions.

**Bluetooth Pairing:**
- **Fn + Q** (hold 4 seconds) → Pair to Bluetooth device slot 1
- **Fn + W** (hold 4 seconds) → Pair to Bluetooth device slot 2
- **Fn + E** (hold 4 seconds) → Pair to Bluetooth device slot 3
- **Fn + Q/W/E** (tap) → Switch between already paired devices

**Visual Indicators (Cyan):**
- **Q, W, E** → Bluetooth pairing keys (shows which key pairs to which slot)
- **Fn1** → Function keys (bottom row, to the right of spacebar)

**Note:** Bluetooth pairing can be done while USB cable is connected. To actually use Bluetooth:
1. Flip the physical switch on the keyboard to BT mode
2. Unplug the USB cable
3. Keyboard will connect to the last paired device

**Layer Switching:**
- **Ctrl + Q/W/E/R** → Switch to other layers (works in Bluetooth layer too)

### RGB Lighting
- **Base Layer**: White (toggle on/off with Ctrl+\\)
- **VIM Layer**: Per-key colors (H/J/K/L purple, S/D dark blue, etc.)
- **Numpad Layer**: Per-key colors (numbers purple, 0 green, operators red)
- **Bluetooth Layer**: Q/W/E and Fn1 in cyan, all other keys off
- **Ctrl Indicator**: `` ` ``, Q/W/E/R glow RED when Ctrl is pressed (all layers)

---

## Installation Instructions

### 1. Install QMK Prerequisites

#### macOS (via Homebrew):
```bash
brew install qmk/qmk/qmk
```

Or install the full toolchain:
```bash
brew install qmk/qmk/qmk
brew install --cask qmk-toolbox
```

### 2. Set Up QMK

```bash
# Clone QMK firmware
qmk setup

# This will clone the QMK repo to ~/qmk_firmware by default
```

### 3. Copy Your Keymap

```bash
# Create directory for your custom keymap
mkdir -p ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/keychron/v4_max/ansi/keymaps/custom

# Copy your keymap files
cp ~/.config/qmk/keychron_v4_max/* ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/keychron/v4_max/ansi/keymaps/custom/
```

**Note:** The exact path may vary. Check your QMK firmware directory structure:
```bash
ls ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/keychron/
```

If `v4_max` doesn't exist, you may need to:
- Update QMK: `qmk setup -H ~/qmk_firmware`
- Or use VIA firmware (see Alternative Method below)

### 4. Compile the Firmware

```bash
cd ~/qmk_firmware

# Compile the firmware
qmk compile -kb keychron/v4_max/ansi -km custom
```

This will create a `.bin` file in the root of the QMK directory.

### 5. Flash the Keyboard

#### Using QMK Toolbox (Recommended):
1. Download and open [QMK Toolbox](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_toolbox/releases)
2. Open the compiled `.bin` file
3. Put your keyboard in bootloader mode:
   - Unplug the keyboard
   - Hold `Esc` key
   - Plug in the keyboard while holding `Esc`
   - Release `Esc`
4. Click "Flash" in QMK Toolbox

#### Using Command Line:
```bash
# Put keyboard in bootloader mode, then:
qmk flash -kb keychron/v4_max/ansi -km custom
```

---

## Alternative Method: Using VIA

If QMK compilation is too complex, the Keychron V4 Max supports VIA:

1. Download [VIA](https://www.caniusevia.com/)
2. Enable VIA mode on your keyboard (check Keychron documentation)
3. Use VIA's GUI to remap keys

**Limitations with VIA:**
- Harder to implement the "disabled keys" feature
- Less control over lighting
- May not support all advanced features (like Right Ctrl + / = Up)

---

## Testing Your Keymap

After flashing:

1. Test dual-function keys:
   - Tap Caps Lock → Should produce `Esc`
   - Hold Caps Lock, press another key → Should act as `Ctrl`
   - Same for Enter key

2. Test VIM layer:
   - Hold Left Ctrl (lower left)
   - Press H/J/K/L → Should move cursor like arrows
   - Press 8/9/0 → Should control volume

3. Test arrow keys:
   - Keys right of spacebar should be arrows
   - Right Ctrl + `/` → Should produce Up arrow

4. Test layer switching:
   - Hold Left Ctrl, press S → Should enter numpad mode (lighting turns green)
   - Press D → Should return to base layer

---

## Customization

### Adjust Tapping Speed
Edit `config.h`:
```c
#define TAPPING_TERM 200  // Change to 150-300ms based on preference
```

### Change RGB Colors
Edit `keymap.c`, in the `layer_state_set_user` function:
```c
case _VIM:
    rgb_matrix_sethsv_noeeprom(HSV_BLUE);  // Change HSV_BLUE to HSV_RED, HSV_GREEN, etc.
```

### Add More Keys to VIM Layer
Edit the `[_VIM]` layer in `keymap.c` and replace `KC_NO` with desired keycodes.

---

## Troubleshooting

### Keyboard not recognized in bootloader mode
- Try different USB cable
- Try different USB port
- Check Keychron docs for specific bootloader instructions

### Compilation errors
- Update QMK: `qmk setup -H ~/qmk_firmware`
- Check keyboard path: May be `keychron/v4/ansi` instead of `keychron/v4_max/ansi`

### Keymap not working as expected
- Verify you flashed the correct firmware
- Check `LAYOUT_60_ansi` matches your keyboard (may need `LAYOUT_60_ansi_tsangan` or similar)
- Test in VIA mode first to ensure hardware works

### Right Ctrl + / not producing Up arrow
- The `process_record_user` function may need adjustment
- Try using a layer with LT() instead

---

## Reference

- [QMK Documentation](https://docs.qmk.fm/)
- [Keychron V4 Max Page](https://www.keychron.com/products/keychron-v4-max-qmk-via-wireless-custom-mechanical-keyboard)
- [QMK Keycodes](https://docs.qmk.fm/keycodes)
- [VIA Documentation](https://www.caniusevia.com/docs/specification)

---

## Files in This Directory

- `keymap.c` - Main keymap configuration
- `rules.mk` - Build rules and feature flags
- `config.h` - Timing and behavior configuration
- `README.md` - This file
